---
layout: ../../../layouts/PostLayout.astro
title: "Day 27"
pubDate: "2000-08-01"
author: Andrew Betts
tags: 
  - "australia-2000"
  - "day27"
  - "locationin-transit"
  - "travel"
  - "traveljournal"
  - "tripaustralia00"
---

I took a proper volley of pictures of the train today. We are occupying two double berths, and last night I had to share mine with another passenger, while David and John had one to themselves. I’m told my passenger gets off today so I will have the berth to myself for the rest of the trip. On one side of our carriage is another holiday class carriage, then two first class carriages and the first class lounge and dining cars. The door between holiday and first class wasn’t locked, but a sign on the door said “first class passengers only” so we didn’t venture down that way. On the other side were our own lounge and dining cars. Our dining car was broken into two sections by the kitchen, leaving the majority of the carriage for holiday class tables, and a tiny area on the other side for the economy class passengers’ take-away counter. I definitely would not have enjoyed the journey if I had gone economy.

In the morning we stopped in Broken Hill for about 45 minutes, and had a leisurely tour of the town, which was our first real taste of the remote outback. Later in the day we stopped in Adelaide for a similar amount of time, but it seemed a great deal shorter, after all, Adelaide is the capital of South Australia. Since we had no chance of doing any meaningful sightseeing, David suggested we try to find a cafe that he had heard about.

Back on the train, it’s amazing how relaxing the journey is, and is exactly the sort of rest bite required after seeing the sights in Sydney. Between the stops in Broken Hill and Adelaide, I spent the day playing cards and reading some of my holiday books.

location:In Transit

summary:Toured Broken Hill, brief stop in Adeliade

day:27
