---
layout: ../../../layouts/PostLayout.astro
title: "Day 11"
pubDate: "2001-06-22"
author: Andrew Betts
tags: 
  - "day11"
  - "locationharare"
  - "travel"
  - "traveljournal"
  - "tripzimbabwe01"
  - "zimbabwe-2001"
---

I wake up late, to find Basil has already left for work. I’m not sure if he intended me to join him but there wasn’t anything I could have usefully done so I’m glad I have remained here. It’s just as well actually as the DHL documents dad sent me on Monday arrive at about 09:30. It’s the security questionnaire I have to complete in order to work for the National Air Traffic Service back home. Question 35: Have you ever been involved in activities intended to overthrow or undermine Parlimentary democracy by political industrial or violent means? Well, I hope not, but I have a few parking tickets if that counts.

Dad has sent me a photocopy of the form with his suggestions for answers helpfully provided - I notice that while he confidently suggests I answer “No” to the question above, he doesn’t apparently know how tall I am or how much I weigh. I’ve only been away from home for a week, and yet it seems my parents are forgetting what I look like.

I read my email, hoping to have a reply from MWeb about my internet service enquiry on behalf of Reapers. No luck there, although I read with interest an email from my sister Emily demanding to be mentioned in my Journal. Well, Emily, there you are - I’m sure it’s much better for it.

summary:Working from home

location:Harare

trip:zimbabwe01

day:11
