---
title: "Day 14"
pubDate: 2002-02-22
author: Andrew Betts
tags: 
  - "day14"
  - "locationkanchanaburi-nakhon-pathom-trang"
  - "thailand-2002"
  - "travel"
  - "traveljournal"
  - "tripthailand02"
---

We had a free morning, but I woke up at 08:30 anyway, because next door were building something and clearly thought they should get an early start. Lorna decided to get a Thai massage, so the guesthouse manager arranged for a masseuse to come to her hut. I went off to check my email. The morning continued uneventfully, and after lunch we piled into the truck to drive to Nakhon Pathom, where our overnight train to Trang would depart, and made a stop on the way at our guide’s local temple - a brand new one but no less spectacular for it. It didn’t have any boundary stones, which I thought was interesting - most temples I’d seen so far had boundary markers: one stone for a normal temple, and pairs for royal temples. I had found them quite useful for working out where I needed to take my shoes off.

Nakhon Pathom contained the largest Sri-Lankan style temple, or stupa, in Thailand. We had a look around, passing time before the train left, and got some good luck armbands from a monk in exchange for a donation. Everything requires a donation - buddism seems to be a very capitalist religion!

Dinner was various things picked up from the stalls of the night market. Back at the train station, our train has been delayed by about two hours. The interior of the train turned out to be nicer than I expected, and beds were private and confortable. The ride was reasonably smooth and the carriage was airconditioned. I still couldn’t sleep though because there was a light shining straight into my berth which I couldn’t shut out.

location:Kanchanaburi - Nakhon Pathom - Trang

summary:Truck to Nathon Pathom, local temple, overnight train to Trang

trip:thailand02

day:14
