---
title: "Day 22"
pubDate: 2002-03-02
author: Andrew Betts
tags: 
  - "day22"
  - "locationbangkok"
  - "thailand-2002"
  - "travel"
  - "traveljournal"
  - "tripthailand02"
---

Wee and Palm showed up a little late, and while I waited Charlotte appeared again. She spent last night on the sleeper train and had just arrived - a proper goodbye was now in order but we’d done it twice already so it didn’t seem necessary. We walked to the local pier to get an express boat to the skytrain stop. We were heading for the weekend market, and I wanted to use the skytrain to get there since I hadn’t used it yet. We got sidetracked temporarily by a couple of german students who needed a complex set of directions, so we took them to their pier to get them started.

There we discovered that there were no boats going where _we_ wanted to go, so instead we took a bus to Siam Square, and boarded the skytrain there.

The train was fast, clean, smooth and quiet - an impressive transport system that is clearly very popular. There are plans to extend it, which seems like a good idea.

The market was huge - it seemed like the sort of place where tyou could get absolutely anything you wanted. I bought some heavy duty hiking sandals to replace the ones I’d left on the beach in Trang, and with Wee and Palm’s help chose a number of souvenirs to take back home. I even had to buy a bag to take them all in, since I had bought too much stuff to fit in my backpack.

We got back to the hotel at about 5, and watched TV in my room for a few hours. Dinner was a restaurant on Khao San Road, after I objected as nicely as possible to going to their favorite restaurant AGAIN. Variety is the spice of life, and all that.

location:Bangkok

summary:Skytrain, huge market, dinner with Wee and Palm

trip:thailand02

day:22
